# 5.1 Software development planning

## 5.1.1 Software development plan for mole

The there are many approaches to the software development life cycle (SDLC) such as waterfall,
agile, spiral, etc. Prototyping is one well-suited to library development needed by **mole**.
The phases of [Prototyping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_prototyping) are:

1. Identify basic requirements
2. Develop initial prototype
3. Review - use unit tests to shake down the software
4. Revise and enhance the prototype - add new unit tests for each feature

### 1.
The requirements are based on the underlying system requirements.

**Deliverables: IEC 62304 documents:**

- Section 5.2, "Software requirements analysis"  
- Section 5.3, "Software ARCHITECTURAL design"

### 2.
Prototype `mole` using the following modules:

- An encryption API
- A one-way hashing API
- The mole library

The language is C99 and the development environment shall be Code::Blocks, Visual Studio, or Linux make.

**Deliverables: C source code:**

- `xchacha.c` and `xchacha.h`, the encryption API
- `blake2s.c` and `blake2s.h`, the hashing API
- `mole.c` and `mole.h`, the API
- `moletest.c`, the unit tests

### 3.
Review `mole` using unit tests in `main`.
A failed test will cause `main` to exit with an exit code other than 0.

When the tests pass and the prototype is stable, section 5.4 "Software detailed design" shall be created.
Systems should be designed top-down and implemented bottom-up.
Top-down implementation is a practice that prematurely excludes much of solution space, leading to
expensive and error-prone complexity.
A prototyping SDLC, followed by the design freeze of section 5.4, provides the highest-quality result.

**Deliverables: IEC 62304 document:**

- Section 5.4, "Software detailed design".

### 4.
Revise and enhance the prototype as the life of the library continues.
Ad-hoc additions to the API will likely be necessary to better support the system.
When they are added, back-annotate section 5.4 to document the design.

**Deliverables: IEC 62304 document:**

- Section 5.5, "SOFTWARE UNIT implementation".

# 5.1.2 Keep software development plan updated

Update the plan as development proceeds as appropriate.

# 5.1.3 Software development plan reference to SYSTEM design and development

See 5.1.1 in this document. 

# 5.1.4 Software development standards, methods and tools planning

C source code will use the CMU [coding standard](https://users.ece.cmu.edu/~eno/coding/CCodingStandard.html).
All code will be written in C99.

The `moletest.c` application will use the console for stdio, returning 0 for success.
It shall compile and run successfully on both Windows and Linux platforms.
gcc shall include the -Wall and -pedantic options.

# 5.1.5 Software integration and integration testing planning

`xchacha.c` and `blake2s.c` are SOUP, but they have unit tests that include large numbers of test vectors
in their [xchacha](https://github.com/bradleyeckert/xchacha) and
[blake2s](https://github.com/bradleyeckert/blake2s) Github repositories.
They shall be tested using their makefiles.

# 5.1.6 Software VERIFICATION planning

The following deliverables require verification: `xchacha.c`, `blake2s.c`, and `mole.c`.
The first two are verified by cloning their repos and running their test programs.
The third is verified by running `moletest.c`, the unit tests.

The criteria for verification is the makefile. If the tests pass, it is verified. 
`moletest.c` shall define ports Alice and Bob, and pass messages between the two.
The tests shall include:

- Initialize ports Alice and Bob, checking that there was sufficient memory.
- Alice gets Bob's boilerplate
- Bob gets Alice's boilerplate
- Pair Alice and Bob, ensuring that they paired
- Alice sends a 1-character message to Bob
- Alice sends an empty message to Bob
- Alice sends a variety of messages to Bob, periodically injecting bit errors
- Bob sends a variety of messages to Alice, periodically injecting bit errors
- Alice sents an administrator passcode to BoB. It must be received successfully.
- Alice re-keys Bob, who then re-keys Alice. It must re-pair successfully.
- Write test data to a binary file.
- Read test data back from the file and verify that it matches and authenticates.

Verification shall be performed before any changes to the code are commited to the repo.

# 5.1.7 Software RISK MANAGEMENT planning

There is a risk of dropped or corrupted communication between UARTs, which causes dropped communication.
That risk is managed by the calling application, not `mole`.

There is extremely low risk of SOUP code having a problem. 
It implements simple cryptographic primitives that either pass their test vectors or not.
If a failure did happen, it would be hardware-related and it would caused an authentication failure
just like any other glitch. 

# 5.1.8 Documentation planning

The software development documents reference IEC 62304-2015. 
Their naming convention and title is taken from the relevant section of IEC 62304-2015.
Documents use section numbering and headers that match IEC 62304-2015.

The intended audience is software developers.
The purpose is to guide the development and use of the **mole API**.

Development and modification of the documents is allowed by anyone with write access 
according to Github policies. These include the repo owner, collaborators with write access,
organization owners, and users with Admin Access.

Changes checked in by top management or Quality Management Repersentative are consided approved.

# 5.1.9 Software configuration management planning

The mole API has no configuration to manage.

# 5.1.10 Supporting items to be controlled

Makefiles and source code are committed in a Github repo.

## 5.1.11 Software CONFIGURATION ITEM control before VERIFICATION

The mole API has no configuration items to manage.

## 5.1.12 Identification and avoidance of common software defects

The most common software defect in C code is invalid memory access.
This risk may be removed by compiling and running the code with [Valgrind](https://valgrind.org/).
Evidence proving that `moletest.f` runs successfully in Valgrind shall be placed in
section 5.5.2 of the "SOFTWARE UNIT implementation and VERIFICATION" document.
