# 5.3 Software ARCHITECTURAL design

## 5.3.1 Transform software requirements into an ARCHITECTURE

The MANUFACTURER shall transform the requirements for the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE into a
documented ARCHITECTURE that describes the software’s structure and identifies the SOFTWARE
ITEMS.

## 5.3.2 Develop an ARCHITECTURE for the interfaces of SOFTWARE ITEMS

The MANUFACTURER shall develop and document an ARCHITECTURE for the interfaces between
the SOFTWARE ITEMS and the components external to the SOFTWARE ITEMS (both software and
hardware), and between the SOFTWARE ITEMS.

## 5.3.3 Functional and performance requirements of SOUP item

**mole** uses two cryptographic primitives that are SOUP items.
**xchacha** is an encryption function and **blake2s** is a hash function.
These algorithms are chosen for their high performance and small code size.

They shall each be able to handle 1 MB/s of data when run on a 48 MHz ARM Cortex M0 processor.

They shall have a maximum combined memory footprint of 8KB.

When test-compiled for a Cortex M7, each had a footprint of about 1K bytes.

## 5.3.4 Specify SYSTEM hardware and software required by SOUP item

If a SOFTWARE ITEM is identified as SOUP, the MANUFACTURER shall specify the SYSTEM hardware
and software necessary to support the proper operation of the SOUP item.
NOTE Examples include processor type and speed, memory type and size, SYSTEM software type, communication
and display software requirements.

## 5.3.5 Identify segregation necessary for RISK CONTROL

The MANUFACTURER shall identify the any segregation between SOFTWARE ITEMS that is
essential to necessary for RISK CONTROL, and state how to ensure that the such segregation is
effective. (Class C)
NOTE An example of segregation is to have SOFTWARE ITEMS execute on different processors. The effectiveness
of the segregation can be ensured by having no shared resources between the processors. Other means of
segregation can be applied when effectiveness can be ensured by the software ARCHITECTURE design (see B. 4. 3).

## 5.3.6 Verify software ARCHITECTURE

The MANUFACTURER shall verify and document that:
a) the ARCHITECTURE of the software implements SYSTEM and software requirements including
those relating to RISK CONTROL;
b) the software ARCHITECTURE is able to support interfaces between SOFTWARE ITEMS and
between SOFTWARE ITEMS and hardware; and
c) the MEDICAL DEVICE ARCHITECTURE supports proper operation of any SOUP i tems.
NOTE A TRACEABILITY analysis of ARCHITECTURE to software requirements can be used to satisfy requirement a).
