# 5.5 SOFTWARE UNIT implementation and VERIFICATION

## 5.5.1 [SOFTWARE UNIT](./glossary.md#SOFTWARE_UNIT) implementation

Software units, and their unit tests, are in three Github repositories:

- [mole](https://github.com/bradleyeckert/mole)
- [xchacha](https://github.com/bradleyeckert/xchacha)
- [blake2s](https://github.com/bradleyeckert/blake2s)

## 5.5.2 [SOFTWARE UNIT](./glossary.md#SOFTWARE_UNIT) [VERIFICATION](./glossary.md#VERIFICATION) process
Each software unit consists of a **.c** source code file and a **.h** header file.
Each software unit has a console-based test application whose `main` function returns 0 for success
or an error code for failure.

Verification shall consist of running the software unit's makefile, which builds the test application,
and launching the test application.

### 5.5.2.1 mole unit tests

The MANUFACTURER shall establish strategies, methods and procedures for verifying each the
SOFTWARE UNITS. Where VERIFICATION is done by testing, the test procedures shall be
EVALUATED for correctness adequacy.
NOTE It is acceptable to combine integration testing and SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing into a single plan and set of
ACTIVITIES.

`moletest.c` performs unit tests by instantiating two **mole** ports Alice and Bob and connecting them together.
The `ciphr` function of Alice calls the `molePutc` function of Bob and vice-versa.
This simulates two UARTs connected by a Null-Modem cable.
```C
port_ctx Alice;
port_ctx Bob;
```
The `main` function in `moletest.c` performs a sequence of tests on the API.
If it gets through the sequence without errors,
the return code is 0. Otherwise, it returns an error code corresponding to the test that failed.

0x0006 Insufficient memory for the ports  
0x0011 BIST failure  
0x1004 Pairing failure, ports could not exchange IVs  
0x1008 Message did not get through  
0x1040 Admin passcode was not accepted  
0x1080 Re-keying failure  
0x1101 Error creating new file  
0x1102 Error encrypting file  
0x1200 Error decrypting file

All of these correspond to tests in `moletest.c`:

- Initialize ports Alice and Bob. Pass if no error code.
- Alice gets Bob's boilerplate. Pass if received.
- Bob gets Alice's boilerplate. Pass if received.
- Pair Alice and Bob, ensuring that they paired. Pass if pairing is successful.
- Alice sends a 1-character message to Bob. Pass if received.
- Alice sends an empty message to Bob. Pass if received.
- Alice sends a variety of messages to Bob. Pass if received.
- Bob sends a variety of messages to Alice. Pass if received.
- Alice sents an administrator passcode to BoB. Pass if it is received successfully.
- Alice re-keys Bob, who then re-keys Alice. Pass if it re-pairs successfully.
- Write test data to a binary file. Pass if no file error.
- Read test data back from the file. Pass if it matches and authenticates.

### 5.5.2.2 xchacha unit tests
The `test.c` application runs test vectors through the `xchacha20` algorithm and verifies
that the correct outputs are produced. The following test vectors are used:

- [version 03](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-arciszewski-xchacha-03) of the draft published on: October 11, 2018
- [version 02](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-arciszewski-xchacha-02) of the IETF draft
- Crypto++ cryptographic library's [XChaCha20](https://www.cryptopp.com/wiki/XChaCha20) examples.

### 5.5.2.3 blake2s unit tests
The `test.c` application runs test vectors through the `blake2s` algorithm and verifies
that the correct outputs are produced. The following test vectors are used:

- `blake2-kat.h`, a 2.2 MB file of test vectors from tbe Blake2s reference implementation.

## 5.5.3 [SOFTWARE UNIT](./glossary.md#SOFTWARE_UNIT) acceptance criteria
Software units are accepted if they:

- Compile without errors or warnings
- Pass the unit tests, including runs under [Valgrind](https://valgrind.org/).
- Conform to the CMU [coding standard](https://users.ece.cmu.edu/~eno/coding/CCodingStandard.html)
- Are harmonized with their documented [interfaces](./5.4_Detailed_design.md)
- Implement requirements including [RISK CONTROL](./glossary.md#RISK_CONTROL) measures

## 5.5.4 Additional [SOFTWARE UNIT](./glossary.md#SOFTWARE_UNIT) acceptance criteria
1. The **mole** FSM shall be reset regardless of state by sending a 0x0A byte to `molePutc`.
This is verified by code inspection.

2. The **mole** FSM shall be immune to fuzzing, sending a stream of random bytes to `molePutc`.
This is verified by code inspection.

a) proper event sequence shall be verified by unit tests  
b) data and control flow shall be verified by exercising all paths in unit tests  
c) resource allocation shall be reasonable for small embedded systems  
d) all detected faults shall be passed to the top of the API  
e) compiler warnings of uninitialixed variables shall be enabled  
f) self-diagnostics shall be performed on cryptographic functions at startup  
g) memory overflows shall return an error code so the calling app can avoid using it

## 5.5.5 [SOFTWARE UNIT](./glossary.md#SOFTWARE_UNIT) [VERIFICATION](./glossary.md#VERIFICATION)

Verification results:

All three unit tests were run and passed on 5/31/2025.

Acceptance criteria were met on 6/1/2025.
